[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
the first one is storage.
How many of you here in person have
any experience with local storage or
session storage?
So, maybe about a third
of you to half of you.
Local storage and session storage
are actually not all that new,
they've been around for quite a while.
In fact, going back to the IE8 days, we
saw the early beginnings of some of this
web storage, APIs filtering into browsers.
So, been around for quite a while,
and they've been pretty stable.
Of all the things that I'm going
to talk about needing a facade,
they're probably the least likely to need
a facade because they've been around and
they're so simple and they're so stable
that they probably don't really need it.
But why not use a facade everywhere
just to make sure that we're protected
just in case?
There are still some quirks about it
that we can address with facades.
So, we're going to talk about
the storage APIs, the web storage API.
We're not going to deal with WebSQL or
any of those other more fancy ones.
We're just going to talk about
local storage and session storage.
But briefly, to understand what those are,
they allow you to do persistent storage up
to a small maximum, something like maybe
five megabytes is usually, but small,
maximum, small cap, maximum,
persistent storage in a user's browser.
Now, the old school way of doing that
was to create cookies, and I'm sure
many of you have had experience writing
where you store data inside of a cookie.
The problem with cookies, of course,
is that it didn't just store it
on their machine, but it also transmitted
all that data with every single request.
So, if you were storing two or
three megabytes worth inside of a cookie,
you were also creating two and
three megabyte size requests,
which was incredibly limiting.
So, to recognize the idea
that we do need to be able,
say the Twitter web client can cache
the most recent news feed of tweets
directly into local storage on your
machine or whatever, so that they can
reduce the amount of information that's
being requested all the sorts of things.
You can have, there's a whole
bunch of different uses, and
we won't belabor it too much, but the
primary difference between the two APIs,
they have the exact same API surface,
same method names.
The only difference is how
long they persist the data.
Session storage keeps it around for
the lifetime of the session, and
local storage keeps it around forever.
And when I say forever,
I don't mean that tongue in cheek,
I mean quite literally forever.
Because there's been recent estimates,
I don't know how accurate they are because
everybody makes up statistics, but
there's been recent estimates that better
than 90% of the people that use the web
have no idea what deleting their internet
cookies in their cache is all about.
So, that's a really small,
there's like maybe 10% of people
that even know what that means.
And of the people, and those
are clearly people like developers or
anybody who's called tech support or
whatever.
The people that do you know what
deleting your internet cache, or
deleting your cookies is,
the people that do know what that is have
almost no clue that that doesn't
delete your local storage.
But there's a whole separate thing
you need to do, a separate task,
you're going to developer tools and
clearing it out or whatever, and so.
The take away from that is if you stuff
some data into somebody's local storage,
there's a good chance that data
is going to be there forever, or
until you decide to delete
it with your code again.
So, if you're using local storage, and you
say you have some schema for how you're
storing it for people's information, and
then the user comes back three months
later and you've changed to a different
schema for how you're storing it.
Well, you've got a whole bunch of their
data that you stored there that you should
be responsible to clean up, so
I have migration scripts in place to keep
the local storage clean,
and things like that.
Now, what about sessions storage?
As I said, series alarm for the sessions,
so you don't need to worry so
much about that.
But we have to actually think differently
about sessions than we have in the past.
Because if you ever dealt with session
cookies, session storage, there's
a subtle, but actually really important
difference between the way those two work.
With session cookies,
if you ever dealt with those in PHP, or
any of the other server languages, session
cookies would be stored for as long as
somebody kept the browser window open,
which means if they were to open up
multiple tabs to the same site, they'd
all be sharing the same session cookie.
Which means the person, if they're logged
into their bank account, they can open
up multiple screens, have multiple
different views of their bank account.
And we've built the web for
fifteen years or more based upon that
concept that we use session cookies, and
they share across all the different tabs,
all the different window sessions.
And only after you close
out the entire browser and
reopen it does it clear out
that session cookie, and
therefore, allow somebody to get a new
session, or if they manually walk out.
So, there's a difference
with session storage though,
because it's not based upon the window
session, it's based upon the tab session,
which means that if somebody comes to your
site in three different tabs, they're
gonna get three entirely separate sessions
as far as session storage is concerned.
So, the storage there is now separate.
Now, that can seem like a limiting thing,
because you may have an app where you
want people to have multiple windows.
But it's also a powerful thing because
there are plenty of cases where that
would be really nice.
For instance,
airline sites, drives me nuts that if I
I'm halfway through buying a ticket here,
and I say well, I've got this other trip,
I wanna make sure I'm getting my tickets.
So, I open up a new window,
even a private window, but
I open up a new window that
should theoretically be separate.
And I go over here and
I start searching for a ticket.
When I come back to this original window,
the airline company is dumb enough to have
not been able to keep
those two things separate.
And I've invalidated something
about my original session.
It would be nice if I
could open up two tabs and
have two entirely separate sessions.
Sometimes that's a useful thing.
So, session storage is
based upon the tab session.
It means that it will be kept around for
as long as they keep that tab open.
As soon as they close that tab,
go to a different tab, it goes away.
Otherwise, it's just a key value
pair that we can store in.
Now, remember I said local storage doesn't
have any, it stays around forever.
It doesn't have any kind of mechanism for
expiration.
So, I recognize that really, these
because they're the same API, and really,
they have kind of the same semantic, we
could combine them into the same facade.
So I created a storage facade In H5,
it's called H5.storage, shockingly,
and you decide a construction time how
long you want the data to stick around.
So if you say,
I want it to expire with the session,
then obviously it's going
to use session storage.
If you give it no expiration, it's going
to work like normal local storage,
and it will stick around forever.
And if you give it a specific timeline,
like we did with cookies,
then it will store it in local storage,
but it will wrap it in a wrapper.
It'll wrap your data in a wrapper
with a timestamp on it.
So, the next time you retrieve data,
if that data has passed that timestamp,
the API will automatically
just discard it for you.
So, it automatically does the cleanup for
you.
We use it just might like you might think.
I can save objects by key name and
value into my storage.
I can discard things from the storage, and
I can call .get to pull things out like
you see on line 18.
Some things that I use
session storage for,
I typically will store a session
ID in session storage.
You have to be a little careful
about that because when
you start session ID's in cookies,
they were automatically transmitted
to the server with every web request.
So, when a user refreshed their page,
they automatically got a page back
from the server that was session ware.
Session storage currently doesn't transmit
your session ID's, so you're going to have
to manually do that with JavaScript, so
be a little careful that local storage.
I typically used to store things,
I'll remember somebody's username in
a username field, or some preferences that
they may have in terms of a font
size in the website, or whatever.
So, you can sort of store
preferences in local storage,
anything that sort of session
based is good for session storage.
Questions about the storage API?
One, I don't show it here on the screen,
but one thing that's a really
little known fact that I'm actually
really excited about with storage APIs,
how many of you have ever
heard of storage events?
Yeah, I didn't think so.
I think it's one of the the most unsung
heroes of the web platform at the moment,
because I think it's totally untapped.
What actually is true of both the session
storage and the local storage,
and this is particularly important for
the local storage, but both of those APIs,
as soon as you change something,
as soon as you add or
delete or update something in
one of those storage doors,
it will fire off an event, and
with local storage, this is important.
Because it will fire off an event that you
can listen to not only in that browser,
but in any other browser that's
attached to the same store.
So, let's imagine that
somebody was on your site, and
they had four different tabs open on
your site, and it was a live editing for
some documents, or something like that.
Well, in tab one, they make some
change and they click save, and
you save that document
to the local storage.
The other three tabs that are open
are going to get an event
fired in them that the local
storage has been changed.
For that site, and
they can pull the new data out and
synchronize their display right away.
So, it's cross window messaging
using storage events.
It's a very powerful technique that nobody
seems to really be doing much with.
So, I bring that up to say because that's
not being utilized much that's something
that we should put into a facade and
make it really easy to use,
we have nice clean event patterns for
handling things, so
it will stick an event handler in this, so
that you can subscribe to storage rooms.